addressed some issues (#2686)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/usaco-1063.mdx

---
id: usaco-1063
source: USACO Silver 2020 December
title: Rectangular Pasture
author: Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_dec20.html)

## Video Solution

<Youtube id="AH1wyxq8nPM" />

> 

Reviewer: maybe add an implementation header?

Reviewer: like separate the video solution thingy and the code with

```
## Implementation
```

<LanguageSection>
<JavaSection>

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class RPasture {
	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader read = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
		int cowNum = Integer.parseInt(read.readLine());

		HashSet<Integer> seenX = new HashSet<>();
		HashSet<Integer> seenY = new HashSet<>();
		int[][] cows = new int[cowNum][2];
		for (int c = 0; c < cowNum; c++) {
			cows[c] = Arrays.stream(read.readLine().split(" "))
					.mapToInt(Integer::parseInt).toArray();

			seenX.add(cows[c][0]);
			seenY.add(cows[c][1]);
		}

		/*

> 		 * because all the x's and y's are distinct,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
		 * because all the xs and ys are distinct,
```

		}
		for (int c = 0; c < cowNum; c++) {
			cows[c][0] = reducedX.get(cows[c][0]);
			cows[c][1] = reducedY.get(cows[c][1]);
		}

		int[][] lessThanY = new int[cowNum][cowNum + 1];
		int[][] greaterThanY = new int[cowNum][cowNum + 1];
		for (int c = 0; c < cowNum; c++) {
			int thisY = cows[c][1];
			lessThanY[thisY] = new int[cowNum + 1];
			greaterThanY[thisY] = new int[cowNum + 1];
			for (int x = 1; x <= cowNum; x++) {
				lessThanY[thisY][x] = (
					lessThanY[thisY][x - 1]
					+ (cows[x - 1][1] < thisY ? 1 : 0)
				);
				
				greaterThanY[thisY][x] = (
					greaterThanY[thisY][x - 1]
					+ (cows[x - 1][1] > thisY ? 1 : 0)
				);
			}
		}

		long total = 0;
		for (int c1 = 0; c1 < cowNum; c1++) {
			for (int c2 = c1 + 1; c2 < cowNum; c2++) {
				int bottom = Math.min(cows[c1][1], cows[c2][1]);
				int top = Math.max(cows[c1][1], cows[c2][1]);
				int bottomTotal = 1 + lessThanY[bottom][c2 + 1] - lessThanY[bottom][c1];
				int topTotal = 1 + greaterThanY[top][c2 + 1] - greaterThanY[top][c1];
				total += (long) bottomTotal * topTotal;
			}
		}
		// count the rectangles with just 1 cow or no cow at all
		total += cowNum + 1;
		
		System.out.println(total);
	}
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
id: usaco-1063
source: USACO Silver 2020 December
title: Rectangular Pasture
author: Kevin Sheng
---

[Official Analysis (C++)](http://www.usaco.org/current/data/sol_prob2_silver_dec20.html)

## Video Solution

<Youtube id="AH1wyxq8nPM" />

## Implementation

Note: the algorithm in the code may differ from that described in the video.

<LanguageSection>
<JavaSection>

```java
import java.io.*;
import java.util.*;

public class RPasture {
	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader read = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
		int cowNum = Integer.parseInt(read.readLine());

		HashSet<Integer> seenX = new HashSet<>();
		HashSet<Integer> seenY = new HashSet<>();
		int[][] cows = new int[cowNum][2];
		for (int c = 0; c < cowNum; c++) {
			cows[c] = Arrays.stream(read.readLine().split(" "))
					.mapToInt(Integer::parseInt).toArray();

			seenX.add(cows[c][0]);
			seenY.add(cows[c][1]);
		}

		/*
		 * because all the xs and ys are distinct,

> 		 * we can just sort of "compress" them into just 1, 2, 3, etc..

Reviewer 2: coordinate compression is explained [here](https://usaco.guide/silver/sorting-custom?lang=java#coordinate-compression), so you can (optionally) add a link?

Author: sure i can do that
